---
layout: post
title:  "Site Reliability Engineering"
date:   2018-10-20 12:00:00 +0100
categories: sre
---

Notes from SRE books

Site Reliability Engineering - Book 1 

## Introduction 

"Hope is not a strategy"

Sysadmin approach to service management. Team size grows with scale

dev want change and ops wants stability, goals at conflict and they are divided

SRE - Software engineer's approach to operations - automate. Systems run automatically, not just automated. So, the SRE spends time in development. SRE number scales sublinearly with size of the system.

Responsible for availability, latency, performance, efficiency, change management, monitoring, emergency response, and capacity planning 


# Engineering

Focus on Engineering

Blame-free postmortem culture

# Velocity 

Pursue maximum change velocity. Meaningful reliability target 99.99 vs 100%. Error budget 1 - availability target. Outage is expected - innovation.

# Monitoring 

Software to interpret alerts and involve humans only if they have to take action.

Alerts - for humans, Tickets - human buy no immediate action, Logging - forensic purpose.

# Emergency response

Mean time to repair - MTTR time to get the system back
Playbook recording best practices ahead of time.

# Change management

70% of outages result of changes in a live system

Automate progressive rollout, detecting problem and roll back.

# Demand forecasting and capacity planning

lead time, load testing.

# Provisioning

Riskier than load shifting (# per hour)


#Efficiency and performance

Monitor and modify service to improve performance.


## Production environment at Google


Servers can be on any machine, resoure allocation is handled by Borg (cluster operating system).

Server : software implements service vs binary that accepts network connection 

# System software organises hardware

> Fill later


# Embracing Risk











## Site Reliability Engineering - Book 2


# Background on devops

No more silos

Accidents are normal

Change should be gradual. Small and frequent.

Tooling and culture are interrelated

Measurement is crucial

# Background on SRE

SRE coined by Ben Treynor Sloss, Google.

Operations is a Software Problem

Manage by Service Level Objectives (SLOs)



