---
layout: post
title:  "Go fetch"
date:   2019-11-30 10:00:50 +0000
categories: Go http
---

This post is about a simple Go program that demonstrates how easy it is to execute tasks like fetching URLs concurrently. The program measures the time taken for the individual tasks and also the overall tasks so we can see that the tasks are in fact being executed in parallel. 

First we look at the elements of the program that we need to understand before we look at the complete program.

You get the current time by `time.Now()` from the `time` package.

Get time interval from `t1` until now by  `time.Since(t1)` which gives time in nanoseconds. 
To get the time in seconds you have to call `Seconds()` method as in `time.Since(t1).Seconds()`

To make a HTTP GET call use `Get()` function from `http` package as `http.Get(url)`. 
The result is a tuple of two variables. 
First is the resp of type `*http.Response` and the second is error.

To get access to the http response use Body of `*http.Response`.

To copy from src to dst use `io.Copy(dst, src)`.
To discard, we can copy into something equivalent to `/dev/null` by setting the destination to `ioutil.Discard` of type `ioutil.devNull`.

Declare and intialize a channel called `mychannel` that can send or receive strings by `mychannel:= make(chan string)` .
Put `somestring` into the channel by `mychannel <- somestring`
Receive from channel by `somestring <- mychannel`
Declare a parameter of function to be a channel for strings by `mychannel chan <- string`.

Now that the different bits make some sense, it's time to look at what the below program does.
The program takes a url slice( ~ array) and for each url it makes a HTTP GET call. It counts the time taken for each HTTP call and the total time taken. For each url, it starts a separate go routine. The go routine puts the results whether happy path or error response into a channel. 
Finally, it receives everything from the channel. 
The program ends when all expected responses are taken from the channel.

{% highlight go%}
// Program demonstrates some basic Go
// constructs to fetch urls concurrently
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    "io"
    "io/ioutil"
    "net/http"
    "reflect"
    "time"
)

func main() {

    // Time at the beginning
    start := time.Now()

    // Declare channel
    ch := make(chan string)

    // Create, initialize an array slice
    urls := []string{"http://www.google.com", "http://www.news.ycombinator.com"}

    fmt.Printf("urls provided : %s \n", urls)

    for _, url := range urls[:] {
        // start a go routine to fetch results on the channel
        go fetch(url, ch)
    }

    for range urls[:] {
        // receive from channel
        fmt.Println(<-ch)

        // The below doesn't work
        // somestring := <-ch
        // fmt.Printf("type of somestring : %s\n", reflect.TypeOf(somestring))

    }

    // Total time taken
    fmt.Printf("%.2fs elapsed\n", time.Since(start).Seconds())
}

// Take a url, make a GET request, put
// the error/happy path response
// into a channel
// Make sure the channel is populated
// in all paths
// there is no other effect of the call
func fetch(url string, ch chan<- string) {

    // See the type of channel
    reflect.TypeOf(ch)

    // get current time
    start := time.Now()

    // make http call
    resp, err := http.Get(url)
    fmt.Printf("Type of resp : %s\n", reflect.TypeOf(resp)) // type *http.Response
    if err != nil {

        // Create the error string
        errmsg := fmt.Sprintf("Calling %s : %v", url, err)
        // Put the error message on the channel
        ch <- errmsg
    }

    fmt.Printf("Type of ioutil.Discard :%s \n", reflect.TypeOf(ioutil.Discard))
    fmt.Printf("Type of resp.Body :%s \n", reflect.TypeOf(resp.Body))
    nbytes, err := io.Copy(ioutil.Discard, resp.Body)
    resp.Body.Close()
    if err != nil {
        ch <- fmt.Sprintf("Reading %s : %v", url, err)
    }

    // time elapsed
    secs := time.Since(start).Seconds()
    // put happy path response on to channel
    ch <- fmt.Sprintf("%.2fs %7d %s", secs, nbytes, url)

}

{% endhighlight %}
